# Android
The witness statement may be used as evidence in court. Statement of witness helps in crime reconstruction. Calling in crime is the traditional method used previously to report a crime incident. Though many of them still using the traditional way to report the incident, there are a number of people that prefer text based crime reporting. Traditional way of witness statement implementation has some issue regarding witness’s memory and information regarding an incident. In many cases, it have been said that witness statement doesn’t reflect the incident much which made it hard for crime reconstruction. The witness doesn’t knows the exact location of an incident which drags the corps to reach the destination at time. Technology should be thanked as it is now growing up to be a medium for residents to report a crime. Thus, this application Mobile Witness Statement for Android (MWSA) could help witness to quickly store what they saw before they forget and generate it into a PDF format report and mail it to online crime reporting mail address.
Its specially made for all Android users. User must enter password enter this application. User need to register and store their compulsory personal information (name, IC number and (email address - only to send the copy of generated pdf and forget password)) which then be attached in the generated pdf of report. All information entered by user will be read and generated in pdf form can attach picture. Can generate the current location address in case the user doesn’t know exact address. Any password forgotten can be recovered, in which the password will be sent to email.
Verification, where password required to enter the software. User personal information stored and will be needed every time a report generated and sent to mail. Information, where read user input and put it all together in a pdf format as a report to be used as an evidence and helpful information for investigation. Upon user request generate the current location address using google map location. System then send the pdf generated report to user email and online reporting mail. Email setting- user need to set a valid email for the system to send any forgot password recovery to the set mail address and a copy of report.. International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) is attached to prevent user give wrong personal information or fake incident report, IMEI number is then attached along in the report, to ease the corps trace back from where the incident report came from.
Eye witness contributes an important credit in investigation as it provides evidences. A credible witness is an individual whose statements are reasonable and believable. Courts are reluctant to impute perjury (lying under oath) to an apparently credible witness because a witness is, in general, presumed to speak the truth. Anything that may shed light on the accuracy, truthfulness, and sincerity of a witness can be brought out by the parties in a case. an application for storing the details instantly is vital to get non altered or modified information from a witness. It can help overcoming the memory issues that have been discussed. When a witness quickly stores the information regarding the incident, even after witness have forgot relative things the information stored and printed out as a report could still help least in the investigation and eventually the main objective can be achieved. 
Under some other circumstances the witness feels its not reliable to reach corps quickly, in case the witness is new to a place saw a crime incident doesn’t have enough credit in the mobile to call corp and doesn’t know the route to reach corp, will have to struggle in keep everything in mind and get to the police station as soon as possible. Therefore, an application that is featured of storing details with location generator can give solution to problems that have been discussed in this paper.
